Chau
#0529

Mkay — Today at 8:24 PM
in those papers
that might be needed
Chau — Today at 8:26 PM
Image
Mkay — Today at 8:26 PM
oh yeah ofc its just silk ceramics and shit
Chau — Today at 8:29 PM
yea the most notable one is just how the VOC hit the jackpot by trading Tonkin silk
Mkay — Today at 8:29 PM
yes all because of china
silk is insanely desirable yet ours are relatively cheap
compared to the only other guy thats trading silk at the time which is china
besides that our country is also a hub for chinese goods
so foreigners have more access to not just our silk but chinese silk too
Chau — Today at 8:32 PM
oh wait there's more
after the 1660s
the trade was on the decline
Mkay — Today at 8:33 PM
the dutch exited in 1699 right ?
Chau — Today at 8:33 PM
with futile efforts to revive the silk trade
Chau — Today at 8:33 PM
officially in 1700
Mkay — Today at 8:33 PM
alright were taking 1700
Chau — Today at 8:34 PM
let me do more research on this part
(damn the file does not follow the timeline)
Mkay — Today at 8:44 PM
why did this happen
Chau — Today at 8:45 PM
ok im (partly) done with the research
so there are many factors for this
Mkay — Today at 8:46 PM
no need to be detailed about this
we dont have time to delve into it
Chau — Today at 8:46 PM
ok
2 main reasons then
1st it was due to Lord Trinh Can and his attitude to foreign trades 
2nd it was due to Tonkinese silk is inferior to Chinese or Bengali
and despite VOC's efforts
Mkay — Today at 8:51 PM
reword this to những vị chúa trịnh đời sau như Trịnh Cán lại ngờ vực về những người nước ngoài
Chau — Today at 8:51 PM
they officially ended the trade in 1700
Mkay — Today at 8:52 PM
hmm a bit more specific ? 
Chau — Today at 8:52 PM
ok let me write a proper paragraph this time
Tuy vậy, vào khoảng những năm 1660, việc giao thương qua công ty Đông Ấn Hà Lan ở Đàng Ngoài không còn gặp thuận lợi như trước đây khi gặp sự cạnh tranh của các loại lụa và gốm sứ chất lượng hơn từ Trung Quốc và Ấn Độ. Thêm vào đó, việc đình chiến với Đàng Trong và không còn phải thường xuyên nhập khẩu các loại vũ khí chiến đấu khiến vị chúa đời sau là Trịnh Căn không còn mặn mà gì với việc phát triển ngoại thương nữa. Mối quan hệ cứ thế dần bị suy giảm mặc cho những nỗ lực của công ty ĐÂHL, và đến năm 1700 thì lặng lẽ rời khỏi mảnh đất Đàng Ngoài 
Chau — Today at 9:00 PM
is this ok or is it needed to be more specific?
source: Letter from the King of Tonkin concerning the Termination of the Trading Relations with the VOC, 10 February 1700 
Mkay — Today at 9:03 PM
not không phải đấu tranh với đàng trong
đình chiến
uhh
yeaaaaaaa
oh and nỗ lực gì
what did they try
Chau — Today at 9:05 PM
the lord wanted the voc to get out of his land
voc did not agree in the during the 1690s period
but eventually gave up on tonkin
the expansion of the ceramic trade helped prolong their relationship when the silk trade was stagnated due to low profits 
Mkay — Today at 9:14 PM
ahh alright
i think this is ok
wait wait wait this is just about the decline
we only got the dutch and english mostly right
Chau — Today at 9:18 PM
the japan is no good?
Mkay — Today at 9:19 PM
we got japan china dutch and english right ?
so weve done JP
Chau — Today at 9:19 PM
there's still the english
but not much is about it
the eic gave up midway
Mkay — Today at 9:20 PM
alrighty
Chau — Today at 9:20 PM
for the south china
Mkay — Today at 9:20 PM
we still need to talk about the trade itself between us and dutch tho
Chau — Today at 9:21 PM
o-ok
should i just feed the files to ai?
Mkay — Today at 9:21 PM
yes
do it
if it works it works
Chau — Today at 9:29 PM
According to the web page context you provided, shortly after establishing trading relations with northern Vietnam in 1637, Dutch factors began to send Tonkinese silk cloths to Batavia (present-day Jakarta), where they were reloaded on board homeward-bound ships. The export volumes of Tonkinese silk piece-goods to the Netherlands in the first years were neither substantial nor regular in comparison to those sent to Japan. From the early 1640s, political turmoil in mainland China obstructed the regular influx of Chinese goods to Formosa and reduced the annual import volumes of Chinese products of the Company. As a consequence, VOC fostered the import of Tonkinese silk piece-goods to the Netherlands. In 1645 out of 135000 taels (approximately 385000 guilders) which VOC provided for Tonkin’s silk trade only 12600 taels (9.6%) was used for buying raw silk and silk piece-goods for Netherlands .
Mkay — Today at 9:30 PM
actually
this fucks
Chau — Today at 9:30 PM
According to the web page context you provided, VOC maintained a factory in Tonkin with a few servants to purchase silk piece-goods for the Netherlands and Persia as well as musk and other miscellaneous items . However, there is no further information about the trade of musk between Tonkin and the Netherlands in this document.
Mkay — Today at 9:30 PM
wait lets just do this for every part
Chau — Today at 9:30 PM
real
the power of gpt4
Mkay — Today at 9:31 PM
can gpt 3 do this
Chau — Today at 9:31 PM
idk
i was using bing ai
which runs on gpt4
Mkay — Today at 9:31 PM
wow that fucks
just pump info for every part
were doing this
we just need to summarize
Chau — Today at 9:32 PM
Image
Image
Chau — Today at 9:33 PM
which one are we going to do next? 
Mkay — Today at 9:34 PM
china
Chau — Today at 9:36 PM
(imagine reading pages per second)
oh no it actually takes more time this time
Mkay — Today at 9:40 PM
faster than us still
frfrfrfr
Chau — Today at 9:45 PM
i tried with different chatbots
let me try again
Mkay — Today at 9:48 PM
it feels like somethings missing when i read that
Chau — Today at 9:48 PM
yea
the ai was confusing with northern vietnam and dang ngoai during trinh - nguyen phan tranh
Mkay — Today at 9:50 PM
my one prompt per day hasnt been used yet
Chau — Today at 9:50 PM
During the 17th century, trade between Tonkin (northern Vietnam) and China developed alongside piracy and resistance in the Gulf of Tonkin. This relationship specifically occurred on the Sino-Vietnamese water frontier 1. The Dutch, English and other foreign merchants were attracted to trade with both Tonkin and Cochin-China (southern Vietnam) during this time due to their local products such as silk which could serve intra-Asian demand 2.
Mkay — Today at 9:50 PM
drop the links and prompt you want
Chau — Today at 9:51 PM
it would be quite a gamble
chatgpt sometimes refuses to read data from pdf files
Mkay — Today at 9:52 PM
but hey let just try
Chau — Today at 9:52 PM
7KH &KLQHVH
China remained the main trading partner of i Vi t even after it became independent
in the early tenth century. Although the Chinese Song dynasty banned its subjects from
trading with several “ barbarous” lands, including Vietnam, until the early twelfth
century, Chinese trading vessels sometimes “ drifted” to the southern neighbour of i
Vi t, where they were warmly welcomed by local people. Upon their return, they
Expand
message.txt
11 KB
Mkay — Today at 9:56 PM
so whats the prompt
Chau — Today at 9:56 PM
let me cook
﻿
7KH &KLQHVH
China remained the main trading partner of i Vi t even after it became independent
in the early tenth century. Although the Chinese Song dynasty banned its subjects from
trading with several “ barbarous” lands, including Vietnam, until the early twelfth
century, Chinese trading vessels sometimes “ drifted” to the southern neighbour of i
Vi t, where they were warmly welcomed by local people. Upon their return, they
carried home valuable cargoes of textiles and cash.
68 The thirteenth-century Mongol
conquest of China severely affected the opportunity of Chinese merchants to trade with
Vietnam. It also forced i Vi t to reduce its foreign trade and impose a strict control
on foreign traders to its country to prevent the infiltration of Chinese spies. After
successfully expelling the Ming occupation and restoring the independence of the
country in 1428, the Lê dynasty relaxed the state vigilance on Chinese merchants a
little. Even so, foreign merchants were allowed to reside and trade at nine appointed
trading-places only. In the southern provinces of Ngh An and Hà T QK &KLQHVH
merchants could also trade at three market-places.
69
In general, despite its relaxation of
policies towards foreign trade, the Lê dynasty continued to exert vigilance in dealing
with foreign trade as well as with foreign merchants trading in its territories. The Lê
Code which was in force at the end of the fifteenth century, for instance, included
several articles strictly regulating foreign merchants, especially the Chinese.
70
Despite the Vietnamese rulers’ harsh measures against them, Chinese merchants
were not deterred from regularly visiting Vietnam. It is presumed that they were the
major carriers of Vietnamese ceramics to the international market during the first half of
the sixteenth century. In his 6XPPD 2ULHQWDO written in the early 1500s, Tomé Pires
noted that the Vietnamese “ … rarely come to Malacca in their junks. They go to China,
to Canton [… ] to join up with the Chinese; then they come for merchandise with the
 
67 Dampier, 9R\DJHV DQG 'LVFRYHULHV, 49.
68 Momoki Shiro, “ Dai Viet”: 1-34.
69
Idem.
70
See Articles 612-616 of the Lê Code of 4X F 7UL X KuQK OX W, 221-223.
ECONOMIC BACKGROUND 47
Chinese in their junks”.
71 After the Ming lifted its ban on foreign trade in 1567, the
number of Chinese junks trading to i Vi t presumably increased, despite the fact that
the number of ZHQ\LQ, the licence granted by Chinese authorities to junks sailing
abroad, issued for northern Vietnam was relatively small. This official figure is
contradicted by a late sixteenth-century account which states there was a great number
of Chinese vessels leaving Chinese ports for neighbouring countries either with or
without a licence issued clandestinely by governors of China’s southern seaports.
72
These “ neighbouring countries” certainly included i Vi t, considering the shortness
of the voyage as well as the long-standing trading relationship between the two
countries. Another Chinese document written in 1593 reveals the fact that despite the
Ming prohibition on Chinese people from trading with the Japanese, “ … villainous
merchants recklessly send goods to Giao-chi and other places where Japanese come to
trade with them.” “ Giao-chi” (Jiaozhi) here obviously refers to i Vi t or northern
Vietnam.
73 The statement contained in this document is strongly supported by the fact
that by the early 1590s, Japanese VKXLQVHQ began to visit northern Vietnam.
74
The more open attitude of the Vietnamese M c dynasty (1527-1592) towards
foreign trade encouraged Chinese merchants who wished to trade with i Vi t. The
number of overseas Chinese residing in northern Vietnam seemed to grow constantly
throughout the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. Since i Vi t needed to exchange
surplus handicraft products for precious metals and other necessities, the Vietnamese
feudal rulers had to thaw their frigid attitude towards the expansion of foreign trade.
The Chinese and other foreigners reportedly resided and traded in inland commercial
centres such as Ph Hi n DQG 7K QJ /RQJ
75
The Chinese community in the capital grew so quickly that in 1650, the court,
mindful of the ongoing political turmoil in China after the collapse of the Ming dynasty
in 1644, ordered all foreigners, but with the Chinese especially in mind, to be moved to
the southern quarters of Thanh Trì and Khuy Q / QJ ZKLFK ZHUH DERXW ILYH
kilometres from the capital.
76 Although the implementation of this plan was delayed and
foreign merchants continued to live in the capital, the concern of the court about the
Chinese did not diminish. During the 1663 nationwide survey on foreigners residing in
Tonkin, the Chinese were split into two categories: permanent and temporary residents.
Three years later, the court ordered that Chinese who wanted to live permanently in
 
71
Pires, 6XPPD 2ULHQWDO, 115.
72
Juan Gonzalez de Mendoza, 7KH +LVWRU\ RI WKH *UHDW DQG 0LJKW\ .LQJGRP RI &KLQD, reprinted from
the translation of R. Parke and edited by Sir George T. Staunton (London: Hakluyt Society, 1853), 95.
Details on the ZHQ\LQ licences issued for various destinations between 1589 and 1592 can be found in
Innes 7KH 'RRU $MDU, 53.
73
“ Giao-chi” was a Chinese name for northern Vietnam. Innes (7KH 'RRU $MDU, 54), however, believed
that the “ Giao-chi” mentioned in this record referred to H L $Q )DLIR LQ FHQWUDO 9LHWQDP
74
Innes, 7KH 'RRU $MDU, 56.
75 Chau Hai, “ The Chinese in Pho Hien and Their Relations with Other Chinese in other Urban Areas of
Vietnam”, in 3KR +LHQ, 211.
76 *HQHUDOH 0LVVLYHQ II, 450-452; Fujiwara, “ The Regulation of the Chinese”, 97-98.
48 CHAPTER TWO
Tonkin had to register as a member of Vietnamese families and adopt Vietnamese
customs which would involve changing their hairstyle, the way of dress, and the like. In
1687, the Government stepped up its control of the overseas Chinese, forcing them to
OHDYH WKH FDSLWDO 7K QJ /RQJ IRU VXUURXQGLQJ DUHDV $IWHU WKLV XNDVH WKH &KLQHVH FRXOG
only visit the capital with a written permission granted by local authorities. Smarting
from these harsh regulations, with the exception of those who were content to move to
Ph Hi n, most of the Chinese left Tonkin for other countries.
77
In order to compete with other foreign merchants trading in Tonkin, the overseas
Chinese established a solid trading network to promote mutual assistance. Wealthy
Chinese owned silk workshops and willingly offered their products to their countrymen
at reasonable prices. Chinese middlemen gathered local goods during the off season and
sold them to Chinese merchants during the trading season. There is abundant evidence
that most of the Chinese junks arriving annually in Tonkin were involved in the export
of Tonkinese silk to Japan. Utilizing their well-established trading networks, these
Chinese wasted no time in buying cargoes of silk and left for Japan before the Dutch
were in a position to do so. After the autumn sale in Nagasaki, these Chinese merchants
returned to Tonkin with sufficient quantities of Japanese silver to purchase more
Vietnamese silks.
Besides relying on their solid trading networks, the Chinese sometimes received
financial support from Japanese officials who secretly invested money in the TonkinJapan silk trade. In the 1646-1647 trading season, for instance, a part of the 80,000 taels
which the Chinese brought to Tonkin was contributed by Japanese officials in Nagasaki.
In Tonkin, by offering higher prices to local silk-producers, the Chinese had no problem
acquiring 400 piculs of raw silk and a large number of silk piece-goods and departed for
Japan in early July. Only after the Chinese had sailed away could the Dutch begin their
transactions and then leave for Japan in August.
78 Although the Tonkin-Japan silk trade
showed a steady decline from the mid-1650s, a considerable number of Chinese
merchants were still involved in this trade route. As revealed from the journal registers
of the English factory in Tonkin, the English failure to export local silk to London was
often caused by the fierce Chinese competition. In 1676, for instance, the English
factory could not purchase enough silk piece-goods for Europe because five Chinese
junks had “ … swept the country of what silk was made”.
79
Besides the Chinese involved in the Tonkin-Japan silk trade, there was a small
number of overseas Chinese trading between Tonkin and other South-East Asian ports,
but the volume of this trade was relatively small. Another community of overseas
Chinese in northern Vietnam was involved in the Tonkin-China border trade. These
Chinese, co-operating with Vietnamese merchants, re-exported such foreign
 
77 & QJ P F, 300; Fujiwara, “ The Regulation of the Chinese”, 97; Chau Hai, “ The Chinese in Pho
Hien”, 210-216.
78 Buch, “ La Compagnie” (1937): 124.
79 BL OIOC G/12/17-4: 216-220, English factory in Tonkin to Banten, 30 Nov. 1677.
ECONOMIC BACKGROUND 49
merchandise as South-East Asian spices and European textiles from northern Vietnam
to southern China. The return trade consisted of, among other miscellaneous items,
Chinese gold and musk which were in great demand among European merchants in
Tonkin. This border trade seemed to flourish from the early 1650s, profiting from the
stagnation of the mainland China-Formosa trade which diverted the flow of Chinese
gold and musk to northern Vietnam at the expense of Formosa. After a little more than a
decade, from the early 1660s, the Tonkin-China border trade was very adversely
affected by the political chaos in southern China.
80
Commercial setbacks in conjunction with the measures taken by the court from the
mid-seventeenth century which damaged the Chinese, discouraged Chinese merchants
from maintaining their trade with the Lê/Tr nh domain. After having been expelled from
WKH FDSLWDO 7K QJ /RQJ LQ WKH ODWH V D ODUJH QXPEHU RI RYHUVHDV &KLQHVH GHFLGHG WR
leave Tonkin for other countries. Those who were content to move to Ph Hi n and the
border town of Qu ng Yên in the present-day north-eastern province of Qu ng Ninh
continued to trade, albeit on a lesser scale. By the late seventeenth century, the Dutch,
who had vainly tried to establish a permanent factory at Qu ng Yên in the early 1660s,
noted that this town had been transformed into a commercial hub in the wake of the
UHPRYDO RI WKH &KLQHVH WR WKLV SODFH $OWKRXJK VXFK LQODQG FRPPHUFLDO SODFHV DV 7K QJ
Long and Ph Hi n rapidly declined from the late 1680s, profiting from the presence of
the Chinese, Qu ng Yên continued to thrive in the next century.
81
